The way I would put it is: Phonon's gameplan is to create a tempo advantage via range, usually via pushing the opponent out to where their attack/boost options don't work, meaning they have to spend their turn to improve their position rather than doing something more proactive or threatening options. She then converts this tempo advantage into getting payoffs with her UA, striking with high damage attacks the opponent often has few answers to. She differs from a traditional zoner in that she does not have your usual zoner coverage of options at range - on offense her options don't naturally hit at range 6+, on defense her options don't naturally hit at range 5+. She also has a low supply of movement related boosts (or boost that give anything but Power for that matter), which means she is reliant on strikes to create range.

Phonon wins by repeatedly pressuring the opponent to keep them at ranges suboptimal to them or running them out of answers, then taking advantage of her UA to make naturally efficient attacks that are hard to answer well and gain a lifelead. Phonon loses by being pressured by the opponent so her UA becomes less efficient, at ranges where she has less options to use and is forced to use them up on defense, or by stat boosts that her kit which lacks in varied boost setups finds harder to handle.
She's advantaged against characters with inefficient movement, who rely on slower attacks that have middling guard, and who are bad at maintaining pressure/resource advantage. She's disadvantaged against characters who are good at closing in, have above curve options or other ways to contest her long range advantage, and who can press an offensive advantage with adv chains or the like.

You don't have to always use your innate when you can, even if the opponent can't defend - if you have 4 cards in hand at R4 and your best strike is a 3 power Tuning with no followup, it can be best to prep/CC to refuel, or boost so that you can hit on the opponent's turn instead and take your turn right after.
It can be possible to overextend with her offense and find yourself without enough resources/options to contest the opponent when they begin pressuring you. Especially with how unreliable you can be on defense, you want to make sure you don't get stuck on a bad hand. It can also be possible to overextend in a different way if you push the opponent out too far, or if they Cross out to r6+ - you can get into a situation where your strikes don't hit, and if you boost the opponent can just empty strike to get rid of it without you being able to hit. If you had been pressuring them successfully before, you have now given them a chance to draw back to full hand while you spend force to move in instead. Sometimes it's best to preemptively get to close range yourself to continue offense instead of pushing. 

Your gauge is a great way to refuel - Phonon has no expensive ultra or Exceed mode that she must use, so it's often a flexible source of force. It's valid to just regularly CC5 from gauge or something to ensure you have the option coverage you have to continue pressure. Her Exceed side can be good for when the tempo gameplan isn't working as well and you just need to outtrade the opponent, or when you need to close out the game. It does however cost a precious turn when you need to maintain a tight tempo, a gauge each strike, and the mandantory movement can sometimes backfire, so it's a tradeoff. Her 2g ult is another long range guarded option to contest other zoners, but it's also just a repeatable source of 3 armor - you can use it when the opponent is pressuring you to maintain lifelead, and recur it even if you didn't hit. The 3g ultra is sort of a win-more card, it's usually 7~9 power but the opponent can play around it if they see you setting up beforehand. You don't necessarily need it as a wincon, so use it opportunistically. Whiffing it costs you 5 force (2 from ult + 3 gauge) so it can set your tempo back a lot.

With regards to her moves:
The notes are mostly on target with some parts I'd disagree with and others I'd elaborate and add to. 
Tuning is a pretty good card. At range 4 it beats everything. On offense can help you set up positioning and later strikes, and is a mixup option. Remember you have four copies of it, so getting an EX is likely, which is very good on defense at R3/4. Boost helps you reach breakpoints you need. Try to keep copies on hand since it's one of the few above curve options she has to round out her kit.
Impulsive is another standard bread and butter card. Always hits at r4 and often at r5 where it's basically unbeatable. Great EX too. Idk when you'd ever use the boost tbh. The opponent can just.. not strike, and on your turn you spent 2 force to gain 1 gauge which you generate tons of anyway, lose a valuable option, maybe have to now deal with a boost the opponent played. Hooray? Technically it lets you gain +2 power instead of +1 on your innate, but doesn't seem worth it most of the time. 

Sliding's a useful guarded mixup option, and good longer range payoff to continue pressure with. Boost's good at range - they strike, you'll hit them with some R5 option. They get closer, you can now 5 speed 7 power Spike them or whatever.
Restriction's a great card, very flexible. The only one that hits at range 6+ naturally. Can be used as a mixup option to bait out your opponent's answers to your strikes, like Cross or EX Dive or something. Can bring the opponent back from range into your R3~5 sweet spot. Can be a workaround against ranged counter options like Giganter Kai orEnma's Fuumajin boost, since its effect is After, not Hit. Can be a good defensive option to cash out your boosts. Boost's useful situationally if you need to create space in a pinch, it's like the one boost you have that doesn't just give power. 
Guidance is good when it's good, bad otherwise, pretty much. Useful above curve option when you can set up for it, keeping an EX in hand allows you some surprise defensive plays and ability to adjust its range on offense. Completely okay to just CC away or boost if you're in a situation where you can't line it up.

3g ultra's boost is solid, worth saving a Sweep in hand for now and then, though sometimes you don't really need it with good UA management. The Suppressive combo is cool but don't bend over backwards trying to set it up, and remember that pushing 6 might not necessarily be to your benefit. If you can't set it up it's fine to CC away for more options rather than keep it around forever clogging your hand. In general Phonon values keeping strong tempo over having perfect combos and setups, so it's good to recognize when to just CC away situational things like Guidance and 3g ult's boost. 
Remember that you have very limited ways to get out if you're cornered. If you spent your one Grasp as an attack rather than the boost, you might be stuck cornered for a long time being pummeled by a grappler, or have to spend a lot of force to Move out. 
Especially against Season 7, where the minimum amount of Force you need to spend to Move out of the corner is 4.
Because otherwise they just Area Shift you back.

Be aware of what options you have available. A lot of your kit offers redundancy, which is good when your gameplan is working as planned, but means you have less flexibility and varied options to rely on. Grasp's boost is your only easy way to get out of corner, Sweep/Focus are your only good slows at range 1, Suppressive is your only natural R6+ option and range dodge counter, etc. Keep the right cards around so you don't get forced into a bad situation. Be proactive in CCing and Manual Reshuffling to gain access to those options. 
Remember that none of your Now: Strike boosts synergize with your innate, so it's a tradeoff you'll have to weigh. Using your innate is a reward for being in the right position with the right options. The opponent's job is to disrupt that as much as possible, make you spend your turns adjusting, Another reason why maintaining a high hand with good coverage is solid for her.